What I mean by Infrastructure is a collection of all the things that are Atheos, but aren't a part of the IDE itself. See list below:

*   **Website:** This website, the one you're reading right now. Atheos needed a website. Codiad had one, and I started with that repo to make this one, but honestly, not much of the original code is left. One of the things that truly infuriates me is trying to find out information about a software and I end up on a poorly built landing page without any heart in it, let alone useful information. I'm hoping that nobody ends up on this website, and leaves without the information they wanted.
*   **Documentation:** Codiad was poorly documented. I'm sorry if this offends you, but it was, and I'm willing to bet it's one of the reasons that development slowed to a stop. I'm not only referring to the github wiki, but the actual code, as well as the commit message on the repo. I'm not much better on my commit messages, but I'm putting in an honest effort to be better. I know comments in code will always be a problem, which is why I have the comment block at the top of each module. I know this is scandlous to say, but I don't think it's necessary to comment code if it's well written, and I plan on not letting poorly explained code get into the repo.  
    However, Documentation is where the key to the world really lies. Atheos will soon have a wiki-like documentation site up. One that is easy to navigate, and informative. I'm not going to write only what the code does, but why. Why is the most important thing you should document, what was your intent. That's why reading code can be so difficult; not because you can't figure out what each line does, but what was the developer even trying to do. That's where documentation really shines. Don't try to write up a long explination of the function, simply tell me what it does, how to use it, and more importantly, tell me your story for why it exists, and that's an easy thing to write for anyone.
*   **MarketPlace:** Currently the Marketplace is a PHP script that either returns a JSON file, or compiles it into a pretty HTML table. It works and it works well.
*   **Plugins:** I've tried to maintain backwards compatibility with most of Codiad's plugins, but it isn't going to be viable for much longer. The context menu alone is going to be rebuilt using a totally different system, and a lot of namespaces have been changed. Eventually, I'm going to have to give up on compatibility, but most of the changes I make are easy fixes to bring a plugin up to date. If there is a plugin that you want updated, let me know and I'll push out an Atheos version. Atheos versions of Plugins WILL be maintiained.
*   **Update:** Oh boy, here we go. So when I did my first official release of Atheos, I decided to look into how Atheos's update function works. It's very complicated, and it some cases, seems downright bizarre. I'm going to be simplifying this area next into a faster flow, and I'm going to be adding some extras to the installation process as well. Now, I'm a big privacy advocate, but as I've been developing Atheos, I keep asking myself who is this for, and some analytics would be nice. Keyword: Some. I'm not adding Google Analytics. Searching through the update functions, I found out that a few things get passed back to the Atheos.io on update checks and market requests. I'm going to be adding some things to them to get a little more info, all completely non-identifiable, and I'll have a full write up put out before it I push it live, but it will be on the next update.
