The FrontEnd is heavily intertwined with jQuery, which isn't inherently a bad thing, however it has caused two issues:

*   The version of jQuery used is incredibly old; version 1.7.2 released around 2011. Not only are there vulnerabilities known in this version, but I won't even entertain the idea that jQuery1.7.2 can run anywhere near as fast/effectively as a new version could, and my understanding is that jquery itself is [incredibly](https://medium.com/@trombino.marco/you-might-not-need-jquery-a-2018-performance-case-study-aa6531d0b0c3) non-performant compared to pure Javascript. Now, I understand that in the terms of speeds we're functionally talking about, it's really a non-issue. There is nothing in Atheos that is doing anything that could cause the user any sort of unreasonable lag, however I hold firm that jQuery should be removed from Atheos still, for other reasons I'll get into below.
*   jQuery is so heavily relied on that the actual codebase is insanely difficult to read, debug, and expand upon. jQuery is designed to make development easier, and again, not a bad thing to do, but it can cause developers to cut corners. All throughout Atheos, jQuery is used for animations and other styling traits that should be handled in CSS. jQuery has multiple areas where it's listening to events from numerous elements when instead listened to a single event from a parent element would be far easier. The context menu in the file manager is a good example of the shortcuts that were used to create it and now it can't be modifed easily to expand it's funcions.  
    Making the code hard to read by adding css into JS and by taking advandtage of jQuery shortcuts has caused the code to become bloated. In the sidebars module, there were a number of lines of code that didn't do anything at all, a few lines that were attempts at solving problems that were being solved elsewhere.

Now, I know for a fact that a lot of the features that PureJS has no weren't around in 2011 when Codiad was being made, and as such I know that jQuery was probably the best way to go. It is 2020 though, and using PureJS is a breeze and insanely performant; especially considering my penchant towards CSS. Currently, jQuery is used for DOM manipulation, CSS stylings and AJAX requests; all of which can be done easily without jQuery, more cleanly and faster in pureJS.  
But what about Onyx.js I hear you say? Yes, I am making my own mini library to help develop on Atheos and remove jQuery. I created Onyx to ease development and standardize implementation of certain things, but with a few key differences. Onyx does not allow for Arrayed actions, eg: applying a class to multiple elements through a single selector. Onyx does NOT have any error handling. It doesn't try to solve your problems and guess at your intent. It sits right above PureJS allowed for shorthand functions for basic DOM manipulation. It allows development to be easier, not lazier. It also enforces Event Delegation, which I am a big fan of.  
Honestly, I'm not entirely sure that Onyx is the best way to go, and if you'll look, you'll see that there are some files that I have _completed_ that I didn't use Onyx on. The toast module is a good example. In fact, I might actually remove Onyx in the future, but because it's so close to the DOM, removing Onyx in the future will be a breeze.
