Just some of the things I've come across:

*   **Modal forms submitting multiple times:** If I recall correctly, when I first started working on the modal, one of the things I did was remove what I had thought was unnessary code. One of those lines was jQuery's .die('submit'), which removed any submit listeners for the form. Well I didn't see any submit listeners being added, so I removed it. Took me about 2-3 weeks to finally notice that forms were being submitted multiple times. When the modal is created, the submit listeners are added by the calling function, not the modal. Since they're no longer removed, everytime the modal is created, a new listener is added, which is then called on submit. Multiple times. Eventually I'll have to rewrite the modal dialogs to use proper submit events and add listeners, but for now, I added .die() to every .live(), so that way the modal.js could be jQuery free. Not the best solution, but it means that I can be done with that file.
*   **Can't create projects:** When I made the first official release of Atheos, I recieved an email about a bug where new projects couldn't be made. Well the night before the release was when I did some modifications to the project creation function in JS. What I had done is I had created a custom confirm dialog for Atheos, instead of using the browsers confirm() dialog. When I implemented it into the project creation system, I literally skipped over the actual code that does the creation bit. So you click confirm on the new shiny form I made, and literally nothing happens.